{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh13600\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Aline and the turtle\
\
I'm meeting Aline in front of a McDonalds Restaurant in Sao Paulo. After a short introduction we are sitting down at one of the stony tables in front of the shop. She takes a seat next to me. Opposite sits Marco, he will translate for me, as I don't speak Portuguese myself. Aline has her 15-year-old daughter with her.\
\
The first thing I notice about the Catadora is a small heart tattoo under her right eye and her freckles all over her round face. She has tied her dark hair into a loose knot at the back of her head and her brown eyes are outlined with eyeliner. She looks a bit shy, insecure and avoids my gaze. I get my mobile phone out of my bag and shove it to Marco so he can start with the questions.\
\
I listen to the Portuguese chant, of which I only understand some words, and notice how certain Aline is speaking. She tells me that she has only been working as a Catadora for about a year now, besides she has her own flip-flop shop. The shoes that she sells there she makes herself. That's why there are almost no weekends for her, she always has her hands full and works every day. Her husband is also active in recycling, he collects bulk material and drives it to the according recycling companies. Her daughter and the 17-year-old son both still go to school. \
\
Days off are rare. Actually they try to work every day to provide for the family. This is the only way they have enough income. Aline collects about 15-20 bags a day; sometimes more, sometimes less. Currently she also works with two companies, which pay her monthly. Per month this is about R$250, a secure and regular source of income. She picks up the separated material from there and takes it to a recycling company. \
\
But this wasn't always like this. In the beginning she worked on the streets. But about a month ago she discovered the Cataki app through Globo, a Brazilian news site (globo.com). Cataki (cataki.org) is supposed to bring Catadores and residents together to increase recycling. If a Brazilian has garbage he wants to get rid of, he can check the app for Catadores in his area. Those can create profiles and specify which materials they collect. With one click, the person can be contacted there via WhatsApp or called directly. Aline is really enthusiastic about the app, she tries to make as many colleagues as possible aware of it to make their work easier. In her opinion there is enough waste for all of them and in the end they all have the same goal: more recycling for Brazil and the environment.\

\fs36 \
Imagine your home is flooded to your knees because garbage has caused a blockage in the sewage system. Recycling not only helps, it can also be a great financial booster.
\fs24 \
\
The environment is an important concern for Aline. However, she only became involved with the issue after her house was flooded for the first time. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 Before that, I honestly hadn't cared. But since things have developed with the job, I'm really getting into it. Imagine your home is flooded to your knees because garbage has caused a blockage in the sewage system. Recycling not only helps, but can be a great financial booster.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  Since then she has been following the events attentively and gets angry when she hears people complaining about the flood, although they are responsible for it themselves. By carelessly throwing away the rubbish, the drains become clogged. But the residents don't know why this happens at all, for that the public education should be stronger. In her opinion it has already got better. There is more waste separation, especially in housing estates. Of course, there are still places where waste separation is not respected, but more and more attention is being drawn to it, especially by the media. She mentions as an example the picture of the turtle with a straw in its nostril. Marco then remarks that he was spending the days out in the city drinking a juice. He refused the straw and thinks it's a pity that so many shops still use plastic straws. Aline confirms this and tells us that many fish die because of the garbage and that many rivers, including Tiet\'ea (A 1,130 km long river that flows through various places, including S\'e3o Paulo.), partly consist only of garbage.\
\

\fs36 Between all those people in Brazil and in the world, you know that a small part of this change is yours. It's like a building. Your brick is somewhere in between.
\fs24 \
\
To my question what she thinks about a possible campaign that draws attention to the work of the Catadores, Aline says: 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 I think it's great to know that you are a small part of the whole, that you are there and can help. Between all these people in Brazil and in the world, you know that a small part of this change is yours. It's like a building. Your brick is somewhere in between.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  But she doesn't need recognition, she herself knows that she is helping. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 If we wait for others to give us recognition, we'll never get it. People don't see other people these days. They think only of themselves.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  Many people just don't like to see garbage collectors, they look at them differently and sometimes think that the Catadores would attack them. But these people just do their job, walking up and down the Paes de Barros (The Paes de Barros is an almost four kilometre long road in the city of S\'e3o Paulo, which connects the Mooca district with the city centre.). When the Catadores have to cross the street with their full carriage, some people are insulting them. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 Such people also need to understand that this person is just doing their job and that is recycling. He's collecting the garbage you're throwing away. But many people still only care about social class. To me, everyone is the same. When we die, we all become dust. I don't understand why you make that difference. I don't like it.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  The working conditions are already dangerous itself. Aline always wears gloves to avoid cutting herself, as there is often broken glass in the trash. It's also advisable to wear a mask, as it's easy to be infected with diseases. In general it would help a lot if the residents would separate their garbage better. That's all she wants at all. \
\
At the end of the interview Aline asks a few questions about Germany, especially about studying there. Her daughter would like to study law and is considering going abroad. She asks if the universities are good and how expensive studying is. After about one hour we say goodbye. Aline thanks me exuberantly and takes me in her arms. She is defrosted and now much more relaxed than in the beginning. It's nice to see how our conversation could somehow give her a spark of hope, even if I haven't done anything yet. But I have the feeling that the interest itself, which I have given to her and her work, strengthens her. She thanks me again for everything and then walks along the street with her daughter, back to work.}