{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh14380\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Erica\'92s family business\
\
Erica works in Sorocaba, a large city about 100 kilometres away from S\'e3o Paulo. Together with her husband and her two children she has regular routes and households that she visits with her old white bus. The rear side doors of the car have to be held together with lashing straps and rust breaks through the beige white paint in several places. On the rear window a hexagon is glued with tape, the left rear window is missing. A few meters beside the bus Erica's baby is lying in a buggy. The four-year-old sister sits next to it in a white and red patterned dress and is eating cookies. This is everyday life for the children. Early in the morning they set off to look for recyclable waste. On Tuesdays and Fridays they drive to housing estates, the rest of the days they are roaming the streets. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 If people could learn how to sort the garbage in the house, it would help me a lot. It wouldn't be so risky to transport all kinds of garbage, like sharp or pointed objects that you can easily cut yourself on.
\fs24 \
\
\
Today they are in Vista Garden, a chic residential complex with private pool in southwest Sorocaba. Right behind the white metal entrance gate there are dozens of big plastic containers in different colours. Red, green, grey, all with the imprint 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 Vista Garden - Lixo Comum
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 . Nevertheless there is no proper waste separation here. Erica is responsible for this, she searches the bins for usable recyclables: 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 If people would learn how to sort the garbage in the house, that would help me a lot. It wouldn't be so risky to transport all kinds of garbage, like sharp or pointed objects that you can easily cut yourself on.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  Then I ask if she thinks that this will work in Brazil in the near future. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 I think it's already changing but it will take a long time for people to learn how to sort the garbage.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  And if anyone can tell, it's her. After all, she's been working since she was a little girl as a Catadora. At that time she roamed the streets with her parents collecting materials, just like Erica does with her children now. After a short moment of reflection she comes to the conclusion that she never had another job, never knew any other professional activity. She grew up with it and has never given it much thought as it is just normal for her. One reason why she was not aware of the importance of her work in relation to the environment for a long time. But over the years and after many conversations with her fellow people, this became increasingly clear to her. Also because the environmental impact and the handling of waste has changed a lot over the years. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 More waste is produced, especially plastic is becoming increasingly. In my opinion, the highest amount of waste is in the richer areas, like here
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 , she says with a wide gesture of her hand.\
\

\fs36 Our income is not enough every month. Thank God many people help us with different things like clothes for the children, toys, food and so on.
\fs24 \
\
Despite the high capacity workload, the family income is not enough every month. They are dependent on the help of others. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 Thank God many people help us with different things like clothes for the children, toys, food and so on.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  But despite all odds, giving up is not an option for Erica and her family. And so she says goodbye to continue moving, to the next housing estate and new waste waiting to be processed.\
}