{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11120\viewh14360\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The journey of trash \
\
We drive through a long road in an industrial area of Paul\'ednia, a town just about 100 kilometres from S\'e3o Paulo. Waste recycling and separation plants line up to the right and left. We are looking for the label 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 Cooperl\'ednia Ambiental do Brasil\uc0\u8242 , an organization that has been operating waste management for 17 years. In 2004 it obtained the ISO 14001 certificate (ISO 14001 is the globally accepted and applied standard for environmental management systems. The norm was published by the International Organization for Standardization in 1996 and last amended in 2015.) for social responsibility, as it employs people without education and prisoners. Unfortunately, we don't find it at the end of the street. At a bar I get out of the car to ask the owner for directions, but this is not so easy due to my lack of Portuguese language skills. Using a Google translator I'm trying to make him understand my request, which apparently works. The only problem is that he then lavishes me with a flood of Portuguese words. A little helpless I look at him and type again that he should write his answer into my mobile phone. That's what he does, but he obviously still has the need to explain everything to me personally. I don't get an exact information, only that we should drive back about one and a half kilometres. When I'm already on my way back to the van, he gives me a signal that I should put on long trousers for the facility.\
\
Slowly we drive back the road and try our luck at a company that seems to fit the directions of the bar owner. However, it doesn't prove to be correct and we are left more or less wordlessly at the locked entrance gate. Slightly frustrated we drive on further and finally arrive. After I've told my name, the gate is opened and we can enter.\
\
As we park next to a VW Golf, a man lies on his stomach in the back seat and snoozes, so that only his legs are looking out. When we get out of our car he also climbs out of his and introduces himself as Vitor. He studied environmental engineering and has been working for Cooperl\'ednia since 2011. Each day, many trucks of collected household waste from the city of Paulin\'eda are arriving here. This city has, which unfortunately is not the norm in Brazil, commissioned a company called "Paul\'ednia Konsortium" to collect the waste. After the garbage arrives at Cooperl\'ednia, it is first sorted, cleaned, pressed and then weighed. A ticket is printed on the machine where various information is noted, such as the date of pressing or the type of material. This marking is especially important for in-house coordination and for the sale to recycling companies. One building away is the sorting unit, a long conveyor belt with several employees who divide the solid materials into 14 different categories for the further processing. At the end of the belt there is a collection point for non-recyclable waste such as coffee grounds, toilet paper or latex gloves. Those are then disposed properly. \
\
The recyclable materials are afterwards cleaned, thus they have a higher value and can be sold at a higher price. The 79-year-old Ant\'f4nio, for example, takes care of cleaning the metal recyclables. At a small workshop, he removes plastic remains on metal plates, among other things. His fine hair is snow-white, his arms are covered with age spots, but his eyes shine behind his glasses. A little wobbly, he stands up when we enter the room and introduces himself in a cheerful stream of words. "It is a great joy that you have come here from Germany, it is so far away! I've worked here for 18 years and I love it because we're successful at what we do." Proudly he shows his workplace and performs a few movements on a circuit board with skillful movements. \
\
Ant\'f4nio is thankful for his job, because of his high age he would have a hard time finding another job. But Cooperl\'ednia employs particularly socially disadvantaged people. Most of them have a lack of school education and get the opportunity to work out a career plan together with the organisation. They start as general helpers and can then move up the hierarchy. The hourly rate is the same for everyone, but each position has a bonus. For example, a general helper gets 30% more salary per hour and a leader 70%. So everyone feels treated fairly and equitably and is also more motivated.\
\

\fs36 We have a vision that children are environmental agents. Then they can help the parents who are not sorting waste properly. That way, step by step a change can be made in Brazil.   
\fs24 \
\
When I ask if former Catadores are also working at Cooperl\'ednia, Vitor answers: 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 We don't have Catadores here, but there are many in Paul\'ednia. We think that in the end they are our competitors. That's exactly why we are planning an 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 open house project
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  where the Catadores can hand in their collected material and we pay them for it. We could also teach them so that they know more about waste separation. This would increase productivity and help everyone.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  But unfortunately this is still a dream of the future. Another area where Cooperl\'ednia is trying to build on is environmental education for the youngest members of society. 
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 We have the vision that children are environmental agents. I sometimes speak at schools to create an awareness of the issue among the pupils. This will enable them to correct parents who are not sorting waste properly. That way, step by step, a change can be made in Brazil.
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0  \
\
So Cooperl\'ednia is far from having reached the end of her journey and continues to set herself high goals to further advance the recycling cycle in Paul\'ednia. After an informative afternoon we get back into the car and onto the road, while Cooperl\'ednia keeps on running its busy business.}